Added blog GA-QAS: Introduction (#483)
unitaryfund/unitary.fund: src/content/blog/ga_qas.md

## Now, let’s start!

# Step 0. Setup the environment

Make sure that you installed Python 3 and the following packages:

- qiskit 1.0+
- matplotlib
- tdqm

We will use a Python package named <a href="https://github.com/vutuanhai237/qoop">$\langle \mathrm{qo}|\mathrm{op} \rangle$</a>, which is a core package for developing quantum circuit optimization frameworks. You can download it via `git` as:

```
git clone https://github.com/vutuanhai237/qoop.git
```

Note that you should put it on the same level as your Python/Jupyter Notebook file. The best is:

```
folder_name
│   your_python_file.py
|   your_jupyter_file.ipynb
└───qoop
│   └───evolution
│       │   environment.py
│       │   cross_over.py
│       │   ...
```

# Step 1. Define problem (W state preparation)

<figure>

>     <img src='/public/images/ga-qas/ga-qas_scheme.png' width="600" style="margin: auto" alt='' />

Reviewer: As discussed in https://github.com/unitaryfund/unitary.fund/pull/483#discussion_r1651463677, image paths begin with `/images`

Author: Sorry for not checking the deployment, the images are fixed.

```py
env.evol(
   verbose = 1,
   auto_save = True
)
```

There are only two parameters: the first is verbose in running process (1 means print process bar, 0 means no print anything), and the second is the saving option.
The saving result's folder is detailed on [GA-QAS: folder result](https://github.com/vutuanhai237/qoop/wiki/GA%E2%80%90QAS:-folder-result).

# Step 4. Plot result

Currently, we support plotting fitness values against a number of generations. In the future, we will develop more presentation plots.

```py
env.plot()
```

<figure>
    <img src='/public/images/ga-qas/ga-qas_example_plot.png' style="margin: auto" alt='' />
    <figcaption>Fig 4. Fitness values versus number of generations</figcaption>
</figure>

The result is saved in a folder; the default folder name is based on the fitness function name. We care about a file named `best_circuit.qpy`, which is our final solution. Then, we can load it by $\langle qo|op\rangle$ and put it into fitness again to test:

```py
from qoop.backend import utilities
best_circuit = utilities.load_circuit("./GAQASPrepareW/best_circuit.qpy")
fitness_value = fitnessW(best_circuit)
```

# Conclusion

> In this post, we have introduced a way to use GA-QAS, just define your own problem (fitness function) and it will help you find best ansatz automatically. For more information and documentation, explore the following links:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this post, we have demonstrated how to use GA-QAS. Simply define your own problem (fitness function) and the package will help you find the best ansatz automatically. For more information and documentation, explore the following links:
```

---
title: An Introduction to GA-QAS
author: Vu Tuan Hai
day: 21
month: 5
year: 2024
tags: 
  - quantum architecture search
  - python
  - qiskit
  - genetic-algorithm
---

In various quantum optimization problems, choosing the right ansatz is a critical point that will affect the result. Many template ansatzes have been proposed, such as Graph Ansatz and EffecientSU2, … but they are limited to the applications that you can apply. Then, we propose a search engine called **GA-QAS** (Genetic algorithm for quantum architecture search). This search engine can take your problem as input and return a good ansatz for you. In this post, we will guide you on how to use it efficiently.

## Now, let’s start!

# Step 1. Define problem (W state preparation)

> <img alt ='' src="/public/images/ga-qas/ga-qas1.png">

Reviewer: 1. I think this should fix the broken image:
```suggestion
<img alt ='' src="/images/ga-qas/ga-qas1.png">
```

2. Please add some alternative text for the image in case someone is using a screen reader. A guide can be found [here](https://web.dev/articles/text-alternatives-for-images).

> _**Fig 1**. (a) State preparation scheme based on quantum compilation technique, where_ $U(\theta)$, $V^{\dagger}$ _are ansatz and state that need to prepare **[1][2]** (b) Some default ansatz, such as hyper-graph._

Reviewer: You can combine this caption with the `img` tag above by using the following syntax like this:
```html
<figure>
    <img src='image.jpg' alt='description' />
    <figcaption>Caption goes here</figcaption>
</figure>
```

More details [here](https://stackoverflow.com/a/10128978).

> In this post, we will use a Python package named $\langle qo|op \rangle$, which is a core package for our various research, including this research. You can download it via:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this post, we will use a Python package named $\langle qo|op \rangle$, which is a core package for developing quantum circuit optimization frameworks.
You can download it via `git` as:
```

```

> !git clone https://github.com/vutuanhai237/qoop.git

Reviewer: Since this is not a jupyter notebook, no bang needed :)
```suggestion
git clone https://github.com/vutuanhai237/qoop.git
```

```

Note that you should put it on the same level as your Python/Jupyter Notebook file. The best is:

```
folder_name
│   your_python_file.py
|   your_jupyter_file.ipynb    
└───qoop
│   └───evolution
│       │   environment.py
│       │   cross_over.py
│       │   ...
```

If not, you should include this line to config the path:

```
import sys
sys.path.insert(..)
```

> The required packages are qiskit, matplotlib, and tdqm. First, we define the problem, take example quantum state preparation, more easier W state preparation. 3-qubit W state is defined as:

Reviewer: Can you clarify what you mean here?

| Fitness evaluation | Evaluate each ansatz by calling `fitness_func(ansatz)`|
| Selection | Get fitness value from the fitness evaluation; simply sort from high to low and take the first half part |
| Cross-over | Divide two ansatz $qc_1$ and $qc_2$ into four parts $\{qc_{11}, qc_{12}, qc_{21}, qc_{22}\}$, then combine each two parts into two new ansatz $qc_1^*=qc_{11}\vert qc_{22}$ and $qc_2^{*}=qc_{12}\vert qc_{21}$ |
| Mutation   | Each gate on ansatz has a small probability of mutating to another gate (with the same number of qubits) in the pool |

_**Tab 1**. Detail of each operation in GA-QAS._

The overall process can be viewed in _Fig. 2_.

In GA, some hyper-parameters need to be considered and defined before you run GA-QAS:

```
from qoop.evolution.environment import EEnvironmentMetadata
env_metadata = EEnvironmentMetadata(
        num_qubits, # As its name
        depth, # Ansatz depth you want
        num_circuit, # Number of ansatz per generation
        num_generation, # Number of generation/iteration for GA 
        prob_mutate # Mutation probability, usually as small as 0.01 (1%)
)
```

> Then, you need to create an `Environment` object, the important parameter is `fitness_func`, which is the function name that we declared above:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, you need to create an `EEnvironment` object, the important parameter is `fitness_func`, which is the function name that we declared above:
```

- $\langle qo|op\rangle$: core package for GA-QAS. 
   + [Github](https://github.com/vutuanhai237/qoop)
   + [Wiki](https://github.com/vutuanhai237/qoop/wiki) 
   + [Paper](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.softx.2024.101726)
- GA-QAS: 
   + Paper: Coming soon.
   + [Wiki](https://github.com/vutuanhai237/qoop/wiki/GA%E2%80%90QAS:-folder-result): Load folder result and continue to evol()
   + [Wiki](https://github.com/vutuanhai237/qoop/wiki/GA%E2%80%90QAS:-Full-pipeline): Full pipeline.

Thanks for reading! Please do not hesitate to ask us any questions via e-mail: vutuanhai237@gmail.com or [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/vutuanhai237/).

# References

[1] Hai, V. T., Viet, N. T., & Ho, L. B. (2023). Variational preparation of entangled states on quantum computers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.17422.

[2] Khatri, S., LaRose, R., Poremba, A., Cincio, L., Sornborger, A. T., & Coles, P. J. (2019). Quantum-assisted quantum compiling. Quantum, 3, 140.

# Appendix: Full code

> The Jupyter notebook which contains the above code can be found [here](https://github.com/vutuanhai237/GA-QAS/blob/main/example/w_preparation.ipynb)

Reviewer: I think it's best practice if you're going to link to code to use a permalink. E.g. https://github.com/vutuanhai237/GA-QAS/blob/694ff6a509df9acc7d3e8053ab89ccfd7d3127c0/example/w_preparation.ipynb. WDYT?

Author: Thanks for your suggestion, I changed it to a permalink.

---

> title: An Introduction to GA-QAS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: An Introduction to Genetic Algorithms for Quantum Architecture Search
```

author: Vu Tuan Hai
day: 21
month: 5
year: 2024
tags:
  - quantum architecture search
  - python
  - qiskit

>   - genetic-algorithm

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - genetic algorithm
```

---

> In various quantum optimization problems, choosing the right ansatz is a critical point that will affect the accuracy of the result. Many template ansatzes have been proposed, such as Graph Ansatz and EffecientSU2, ..., etc. Yet these examples can be limited in their applicability. Hence, we've created a search engine called **GA-QAS** (Genetic Algorithm for Quantum Architecture Search) to aid in the discovery of the right ansatz. In this post, we will guide you on how to use it efficiently.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In various quantum optimization problems, choosing the right ansatz is a critical point that will affect the accuracy of the result. Many template ansatzes have been proposed, such as Graph Ansatz and EfficientSU2, etc. Yet these examples can be limited in their applicability. Hence, we've created a search engine called **GA-QAS** (Genetic Algorithm for Quantum Architecture Search) to aid in the discovery of the right ansatz. In this post, we will guide you on how to use it efficiently.
```

Reviewer 2: This first paragraph could be expanded.

Author: ```suggestion
In various quantum optimization problems, choosing the right ansatz is a critical point that will affect the accuracy of the result. For example, in Variational Quantum Eigensolver, many template ansatzes have been proposed, such as Graph Ansatz and EffecientSU2, etc. An ansatz [1] is the structure of quantum gates, deciding how many and what type of gates will be used, for easier imagination, it's equivalent to the model's architecture in a deep learning model. Yet the above example ansatzes can be limited in their applicability. Hence, we've created a search engine called **GA-QAS** (Genetic Algorithm for Quantum Architecture Search) to aid in the discovery of the right ansatz. In this post, we will guide you on how to use it efficiently.
```
Thanks @nathanshammah for your comment, I expanded this paragraph a little and added [1] as a reference.

## Now, let’s start!

# Step 0. Setup the environment

Make sure that you installed Python 3 and the following packages:

- qiskit 1.0+
- matplotlib
- tdqm

We will use a Python package named <a href="https://github.com/vutuanhai237/qoop">$\langle \mathrm{qo}|\mathrm{op} \rangle$</a>, which is a core package for developing quantum circuit optimization frameworks. You can download it via `git` as:

```
git clone https://github.com/vutuanhai237/qoop.git
```

Note that you should put it on the same level as your Python/Jupyter Notebook file. The best is:

```
folder_name
│   your_python_file.py
|   your_jupyter_file.ipynb
└───qoop
│   └───evolution
│       │   environment.py
│       │   cross_over.py
│       │   ...
```

# Step 1. Define problem (W state preparation)

<figure>
    <img src='/images/ga-qas/ga-qas_scheme.png' width="600" style="margin: auto" alt='' />
    <figcaption>
    Fig 1. (a) State preparation scheme based on quantum compilation technique, where U, V are ansatz and state that need to prepare[1][2]. (b) Some default ansatz, such as hyper-graph.
    </figcaption>
</figure>

> First, we define the problem, take example quantum state preparation, such as W state preparation. A 3-qubit W state is defined as:

Reviewer: Thanks for clearing this up a bit. I still think it needs more context for someone who might not understand that state prep is a vital part of QC. I made a recommendation here https://github.com/unitaryfund/unitary.fund/pull/483#discussion_r1657697366, but I think it should be extended slightly.

Sorry to go harp on this so much, but I think it's crucial to try to bring as many people in as possible and this is the the hook.

Author: As your recommendation, I add an introduction about quantum state preparation!

```suggestion
Quantum state preparation (QSP) is a process that
uses a trainable unitary operator to transform the initial state into a desired target state. This process is crucial for quantum computation and information processing. Example: in a quantum machine learning application, if you want to put an image into the quantum circuit for training, you must flat the image as a vector and then use QSP!

First, we define the problem, take example W - state preparation. A 3-qubit W state is defined as:

$$
|W_3\rangle = V|000\rangle = \frac{1}{\sqrt{3}}(|001\rangle + |010\rangle + |100\rangle)
$$

To prepare a W state (or other states), we will need a unitary operator $V$ generated systematically. Normally, $V$ requires large resources (such as large depth and number of gates). Therefore, we need to find another unitary $U(\theta)$ (trainable) that is approximate to $V$ but requires fewer resources than $V$.
```

$$

If we want to prepare such state, we will need an unitary operator $V$, but in some cases, $V$ requires large resources (such as large depth and number of gates). Then, we want to find another unitary $U(\theta)$ that is approximate to $V$, $U(\theta)$ requires fewer resources than $V$ but consumes an initial to optimize $\theta$. 

The problem comes from here: the structure of $U$, or ansatz $U$, affects how "hard" and "large" this optimization process is. Then, we need to find the "best" $U$ automatically. This is known as the "quantum architecture search" problem. 

<!-- You can try to prepare 3-qubit W state by using $\langle qo|op \rangle$, a wiki can be found [here](https://github.com/vutuanhai237/qoop/wiki/Advance:-Custom-state-preparation): -->

<!-- ```py
from qoop.compilation.qsp import QuantumStatePreparation
from qoop.core import ansatz, state

compiler = QuantumStatePreparation(
    u = ansatz.g2(num_qubits = 3, num_layers = 1),
    target_state = state.w(num_qubits = 3).inverse()
).fit(num_steps = 100) # Define the optimization process and begin to optimize in 100 iterations
compiler.plot() # Plot optimization process

> ``` -->

Reviewer: Why was this code block commented out? If we don't want it in the blog post, it should be removed, but it seems insightful.

Author: Because it's a duplicate with the code below, so I want to remove it.

<figure>
    <img src='/images/ga-qas/ga-qas_example_plot_preparew.png' style="margin: auto" alt='' />
    <figcaption>Fig 2. Metrics of W-state preparation process versus iteration when running the example code. Note that loss_fubini_study is overlapped by trace distances. loss_fubini_study should be near 0 as much as possible.</figcaption>
</figure>

```py
import qiskit
from qoop.compilation.qsp import QuantumStatePreparation

> from qoop.core import ansatz, state

Reviewer: It doesn't look like `ansatz` is used.

```suggestion
from qoop.core import state
```

def fitnessW(qc: qiskit.QuantumCircuit):
    qsp = QuantumStatePreparation(
        u = qc,
        target_state = state.w(num_qubits = 3).inverse()
    ).fit()
    # qsp.plot() # Plot optimization process as Fig. 2.
    return 1 - qsp.compiler.metrics['loss_fubini_study'][-1] # Fitness value
```

> **Make sure** that you can run the above code. We wrap the quantum state preparation problem into a function $f: U \rightarrow \mathbb{R}$, the return value of this function is $(1 - \text{last loss value})$, which means near 1 is good.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Make sure** that you can run the above code. We wrap the quantum state preparation problem into a function $f: U \rightarrow \mathbb{R}$, the return value of this function is $(1 - \text{last loss value})$, which means a value near 1 is desired.
```

> Let's move to the next step!
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```py
env.plot()
```

<figure>
    <img src='/images/ga-qas/ga-qas_example_plot_evolution.png' style="margin: auto" alt='' />
    <figcaption>Fig 4. Fitness values versus number of generations</figcaption>
</figure>

The result is saved in a folder; the default folder name is based on the fitness function name. We care about a file named `best_circuit.qpy`, which is our final solution. Then, we can load it by $\langle qo|op\rangle$ and put it into fitness again to test:

```py
from qoop.backend import utilities
best_circuit = utilities.load_circuit("./GAQASPrepareW/best_circuit.qpy")
fitness_value = fitnessW(best_circuit)
```

# Conclusion

In this post, we have demonstrated how to use GA-QAS. Simply define your own problem (fitness function) and the package will help you find the best ansatz automatically. For more information and documentation, explore the following links:

- $\langle qo|op\rangle$: core package for GA-QAS.
  - [Github](https://github.com/vutuanhai237/qoop)
  - [Wiki](https://github.com/vutuanhai237/qoop/wiki)
  - [Paper](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.softx.2024.101726)
- GA-QAS:

>   - Paper: Coming soon.

Reviewer: Definitely add the paper once it's out, even once this is merged :)

Author: I added our recent paper on arxiv!

  - [Wiki](https://github.com/vutuanhai237/qoop/wiki/GA%E2%80%90QAS:-folder-result): Load folder result and continue to evol()
  - [Wiki](https://github.com/vutuanhai237/qoop/wiki/GA%E2%80%90QAS:-Full-pipeline): Full pipeline.

Thanks for reading! Please do not hesitate to ask us any questions via e-mail: vutuanhai237@gmail.com or [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/vutuanhai237/).

# References

[1] Hai, V. T., Viet, N. T., & Ho, L. B. (2023). Variational preparation of entangled states on quantum computers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.17422.

[2] Khatri, S., LaRose, R., Poremba, A., Cincio, L., Sornborger, A. T., & Coles, P. J. (2019). Quantum-assisted quantum compiling. Quantum, 3, 140.

# Appendix: Full code

The Jupyter notebook which contains the above code can be found [here](https://github.com/vutuanhai237/GA-QAS/blob/694ff6a509df9acc7d3e8053ab89ccfd7d3127c0/example/w_preparation.ipynb)

```py
import qiskit

> from qoop.core import state, metric, ansatz

Reviewer: Looks like these two are not needed.

```suggestion
from qoop.core import state
```

---
title: An Introduction to GA-QAS
author: Vu Tuan Hai
day: 21
month: 5
year: 2024
tags:
  - quantum architecture search
  - python
  - qiskit
  - genetic-algorithm
---

In various quantum optimization problems, choosing the right ansatz is a critical point that will affect the accuracy of the result. Many template ansatzes have been proposed, such as Graph Ansatz and EffecientSU2, … but they are limited in their applicability. Hence, we've created a search engine called **GA-QAS** (Genetic Algorithm for Quantum Architecture Search) to aid in the discovery of the right ansatz. In this post, we will guide you on how to use it efficiently.

> Required packages:
> 
> - qiskit 1.0+
> - matplotlib
> - tdqm

Author: I added it as Step 0.

```suggestion
# Step 0. Setup the environment

Make sure that you installed Python 3 and the following packages:

- qiskit 1.0+
- matplotlib
- tdqm
```

## Now, let’s start!

# Step 1. Define problem (W state preparation)

<figure>

>     <img src='/public/images/ga-qas/ga-qas1.png' width="600" style="margin: auto" alt='description' />

Reviewer: Since the caption is now associated with this image I think we can provide a null alt attribute to denote to screen readers that the image can be ignored. More info [here](https://www.boia.org/blog/should-you-include-alt-text-for-pictures-with-captions).

```suggestion
    <img src='/public/images/ga-qas/ga-qas1.png' width="600" style="margin: auto" alt='' />
```

    <figcaption>
    Fig 1. (a) State preparation scheme based on quantum compilation technique, where U, V are ansatz and state that need to prepare[1][2]. (b) Some default ansatz, such as hyper-graph.
    </figcaption>
</figure>

In this post, we will use a Python package named <a href="https://github.com/vutuanhai237/qoop">$\langle \mathrm{qo}|\mathrm{op} \rangle$</a>, which is a core package for developing quantum circuit optimization frameworks.
You can download it via `git` as:

```
git clone https://github.com/vutuanhai237/qoop.git
```

Note that you should put it on the same level as your Python/Jupyter Notebook file. The best is:

```
folder_name
│   your_python_file.py
|   your_jupyter_file.ipynb
└───qoop
│   └───evolution
│       │   environment.py
│       │   cross_over.py
│       │   ...

> ```

Reviewer: This should go in a "step 0: set up" section as it is distinct from defining the circuit.

Author: It's moved to Step 0.

> First, we define the problem, take example quantum state preparation, more easier W state preparation. 3-qubit W state is defined as:

Reviewer: I think we want to say something along the lines of

> One of the core problems in quantum computing is that of state preparation. In this demonstration we will use `qoop` to demonstrate how to find a unitary $V$ that creates the 3-qubit Werner state defined below.

Reviewer: @vutuanhai237 don't forget this suggestion! The current sentence is a bit confusing.

Reviewer: @vutuanhai237 this bit needs to be reworked to bring in readers who need more context as to the usefulness of your package. I made a suggestion above. Can you ensure there's a nice entry point for readers who are less familiar with this specific problem.

Reviewer: @vutuanhai237 reminder that this comment needs to be addressed in order to move things forward.

Author: Sorry @natestemen , look like I missed some above comments!

Author: I resolved it in the above.

$$

> |W_3\rangle=V|000\rangle=\frac{1}{\sqrt{3}}(|001\rangle+|010\rangle+|100\rangle)

Reviewer: Just to make the markdown a little more readable.

```suggestion
|W_3\rangle = V|000\rangle = \frac{1}{\sqrt{3}}(|001\rangle + |010\rangle + |100\rangle)
```

$$

> And so on for a larger number of qubits. If we want to prepare such a state, we will need to care about the unitary operator $V$, but in some cases, $V$ requires large resources (such as large depth and number of gates). Then, we want to find another unitary $U(\theta)$ that is "equal" to V, $U(\theta)$ requires fewer resources than $V$ but consumes an initial to optimize $\theta$. The problem comes from here: the structure of $U$, or ansatz $U$, affects how "hard" and "large" this optimization process is.

Reviewer: Why is equal in quotes? Are we talking about approximate equality or exact?

Author: Thank for your comment, I changed "equal" to approximate for better understanding.

> You can try to prepare 3-qubit W state by using $\langle qo|op \rangle$, a wiki can be found [here](https://github.com/vutuanhai237/qoop/wiki/Advance:-Custom-state-preparation):

Reviewer: Is this comment needed since the code is found immediately below? It's a great idea to link to other documentation, but it's not specific to the state this demo involves. Maybe change this for a lead in/explanation of the code found below.

Author: I cleared the duplicate example code, then, edited this paragraph. Now it turns out to be the explanation of the code below.

```py
from qoop.compilation.qsp import QuantumStatePreparation
from qoop.core import ansatz, state

compiler = QuantumStatePreparation(
    u = ansatz.g2(num_qubits = 3, num_layers = 1)
    target_state = state.w(num_qubits = 3).inverse()
).fit(num_steps = 100) # Define the optimization process and begin to optimize in 100 iterations

> compiler.plot() # Plot optimization process

Reviewer: Should we add the plot that is generated?

Author: Thank you for your suggestion, I added it.

|  Fitness evaluation   |                                                                             Evaluate each ansatz by calling `fitness_func(ansatz)`                                                                              |
|       Selection       |                                                    Get fitness value from the fitness evaluation; simply sort from high to low and take the first half part                                                     |
|      Cross-over       | Divide two ansatz $qc_1$ and $qc_2$ into four parts $\{qc_{11}, qc_{12}, qc_{21}, qc_{22}\}$, then combine each two parts into two new ansatz $qc_1^*=qc_{11}\vert qc_{22}$ and $qc_2^{*}=qc_{12}\vert qc_{21}$ |
|       Mutation        |                                              Each gate on ansatz has a small probability of mutating to another gate (with the same number of qubits) in the pool                                               |

_**Tab 1**. Detail of each operation in GA-QAS._

> The overall process can be viewed in _Fig. 2_.

Reviewer: Line is out of context. Should it go somewhere else, or be removed?

Author: My mistake, the line `The overall process can be viewed in _Fig. 2_.` is moved to above paragraph.

> In GA, some hyper-parameters need to be considered and defined before you run GA-QAS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the GA, some hyper-parameters need to be considered and defined before you run GA-QAS:
```

```py
from qoop.evolution.environment import EEnvironmentMetadata
env_metadata = EEnvironmentMetadata(
        num_qubits, # As its name
        depth, # Ansatz depth you want
        num_circuit, # Number of ansatz per generation
        num_generation, # Number of generation/iteration for GA
        prob_mutate # Mutation probability, usually as small as 0.01 (1%)
)
```

Then, you need to create an `EEnvironment` object, the important parameter is `fitness_func`, which is the function name that we declared above:

```py
from qoop.evolution.environment import EEnvironment
env = EEnvironment(
     metadata = env_metadata,
     fitness_func = fitnessW,
)

> ```

Reviewer: I think it's simple enough to merge these two code cells. WDYT?

Author: I agree with you, I merge these two code cells into one.

```py
from qoop.evolution import crossover, mutate, selection, threshold
```

or defined by yourself.

|   Parrameter   |             Default             |                                                        Function type                                                         |
| :------------: | :-----------------------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| selection_func |   selection.elitist_selection   |                 $f$: [qiskit.QuantumCircuit] $\times$ $\mathbb{R}^{N}$ $\rightarrow$ [qiskit.QuantumCircuit]                 |
| crossover_func |  crossover.onepoint_crossover   | $f$: qiskit.QuantumCircuit $\times$ qiskit.QuantumCircuit $\rightarrow$ qiskit.QuantumCircuit $\times$ qiskit.QuantumCircuit |
|  mutate_func   |     mutate.layerflip_mutate     |                                $f$: qiskit.QuantumCircuit $\rightarrow$ qiskit.QuantumCircuit                                |
| threshold_func | threshold.compilation_threshold |                                             $f$: $\mathbb{R} \rightarrow$ {0,1}                                              |

> _**Table 2**: Parameter functions for GA-QAS._

Reviewer: If we aren't using these parameters in this demo, lets remove this. Keep it simple!

Author: I moved this part from the blog to Github wiki.

# Step 3. Run GA-QAS

You can call the method `evol()` to start running GA-QAS.

```py
env.evol(
   verbose = 1,
   auto_save = True
)
```

> There are only two parameters: the first is verbose (1 means print % process, 0 means no print), and the second is the saving option.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this means something, but if it does, please explain.
```suggestion
There are only two parameters: the first is verbose (1 means print, 0 means no print), and the second is the saving option.
```

Author: It's like a verbose parameter from the deep learning framework, 1 means print the progress bar, 0 means no print anything (I added this explanation)

Reviewer: Ohhhhh I see now. Print the percent **progress**. Right?

> The saving result's folder is detailed on [GA-QAS: folder result](https://github.com/vutuanhai237/qoop/wiki/GA%E2%80%90QAS:-folder-result).

Reviewer: Do the results need to be saved in order to generate the plot below?

Author: No, the user can plot without saving the result.

Reviewer: If the results don't need to be saved, lets avoid mentioning it in this introductory post.

Author: Ok I removed it

# Step 4. Plot result

Currently, we support plotting fitness values against a number of generations. In the future, we will develop more presentation plots.

```py
env.plot()
```

<figure>
    <img src='/public/images/ga-qas/ga-qas3.png' style="margin: auto" alt='description' />
    <figcaption>Fig 3. Fitness values versus number of generations</figcaption>
</figure>

The result is saved in a folder; the default folder name is based on the fitness function name. We care about a file named `best_circuit.qpy`, which is our final solution. Then, we can load it by $\langle qo|op\rangle$ and put it into fitness again to test:

```py
from qoop.backend import utilities

> best_circuit = utilities.load_circuit("Path to best_circuit.qpy")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
best_circuit = utilities.load_circuit("./best_circuit.qpy")
```

Author: The folder's result has the default name depending on fitness function and datetime. So, I prefer users use the set_filename method if they want a shorter name. The example is `env.set_filename('GAQASPrepareW')`; then this line changed to `best_circuit = utilities.load_circuit("./GAQASPrepareW/best_circuit.qpy")`
